The Gateway of India is an arch monument built during the 20th century in Bombay, India. The monument was erected to commemorate the landing of King George V and Queen Mary at Apollo Bunder on their visit to India in 1911.
Built in Indo-Saracenic style, the foundation stone for the Gateway of India was laid on 31 March 1911. The structure is an arch made of basalt, 26 metres (85 feet) high. The final design of George Wittet was sanctioned in 1914 and the construction of the monument was completed in 1924. The Gateway was later used as a symbolic ceremonial entrance to India for Viceroys and the new Governors of Bombay.  It served to allow entry and access to India.
The Gateway of India is located on the waterfront at Apollo Bunder area at the end of Chhatrapati Shivaji Marg in South Mumbai and overlooks the Arabian Sea. The monument has also been referred to as the Taj Mahal of Mumbai, and is the city’s top tourist attraction.
			History
The main objective behind the construction of the Gateway of India was to commemorate the visit of King George V and Queen Mary to Bombay (Mumbai). In March 1911, Sir George Sydenham Clarke, who was then the Governor of Bombay, laid down the monument's first foundation. Although, this plan was approved only in 1914, the reclamations at Apollo Bunder were completed only in 1919. The architectural design of Gateway of India was fashioned by architect, George Wittet. It took 4 years to complete this monument's construction.
			Architectural Layout
The structural design of the Gateway of India is constituted of a large arch, with a height of 26m. The monument is built in yellow basalt and indissoluble concrete. The structural plan of Gateway of India is designed in the Indo-Saracenic style. One can also find traces of Muslim architectural styles incorporated in the structure of the grandiose edifice. The central dome of the monument is about 48 feet in diameter, with a total height of 83 feet. Designed with intricate latticework, the 4 turrets are the prominent features of the entire structure of the Gateway of India. There are steps constructed behind the arch of the Gateway that leads to the Arabian Sea. The monument is structured in such a way that one can witness the large expanse of the 'blue blanket' right ahead, welcoming and sending off ships and visitors.
			Nearby Tourist Attractions
The Elephant Caves are located very close to the Gateway of India, and tourists can travel on motor boats to reach the Elephant Islands. Statues of the Maratha leader Shivaji and Swami Vivekananda are installed at the entrance of the Elephant Caves. The Taj Mahal Hotel is India's most prestigious and luxurious hotel and is situated close to the Gateway of India.
			Visiting Hours
People can visit the monument at any time of the day. The best time to visit the Gateway of India is during the period of November to March, as the post-monsoon climate is very pleasant and there are very less chances for downpours at this time.
One of India's prized monuments, the Gateway of India was built in 1924. The Gateway of India is a major tourist hub in the city, which is located at Apollo Bunder Waterfront in Southern Mumbai. This monument was built to welcome King George V and Queen Mary to Mumbai and years later, the last horde of British troops left India through this gateway.

