he structure was erected on a set of high rising rocks and was given its present day shape in the early 19th century after the Trust was legally formed as an entity in 1916.
Haji Ali Dargah is the complex housing the tomb of the Muslim Saint Pir Haji Ali Shah Bukhari (R.A.). Along with the tomb, there is also a Masjid at Haji Ali. This monument has been sentinel to the shores of Mumbai since a long time.
The structure has white domes and minarets reminiscent with the Mughal architecture of the period. The Dargah is a renowned pilgrimage site among the Muslims. Non-Muslims are also allowed to visit the Dargah. The white-coloured structure attracts visitors in large numbers. About 10 - 15 thousand people visit the Dargah daily. The number of visitors increases to 20 - 30 thousand, on Thursdays, Fridays and Sundays. Lakhs of devotees visit the Dargah on the second day of Ramadhan Eid and Bakri Eid (Eid-ul-Uzha), and during which the pathway leading to the Dargah Complex looks like a Sea of Humanity.
People from all parts of the world without restrictions of caste, creed and religion visit the Dargah to offer their prayers and for the fulfillment of their wishes by the blessings of the Saint Pir Haji Ali Shah Bukhari (R.A.). Some pray for wealth, others for health, children, marriages, etc. have their wishes being granted at all the times.
Haji Ali Dargah is an iconic landmark in Mumbai, floating in the middle of sea like a revered mirage. This Indo-Islamic pilgrim site is a welcome yet striking sight located on an island near Worli coast in Mumbai. The mosque was built in 19th century and houses the tomb of Saint Pir Haji Ali Shah Bukhari. Legend has it that Saint Haji Ali died when he went on a pilgrimage to Mecca, but miraculously, his casket floated across the sea and ended up on the shores of Mumbai.
			Things to do
After you are done with offering prayers, and seeking blessings of the holy saint, you can stroll around the complex, indulge in tasting local cuisine, or spend some time in shopping. You will find a number of local stalls set up just outside the dargah complex; do not forget to gorge over some local specialities like chaat, Mughlai biryani, kebabs, and Hyderabadi food.
 
