The Marine drive officially known as Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Road is a 3Km long, arc-shaped boulevard, located in Southern Mumbai, a landmark well-known for its glamour and glitter which it spreads in the city. It shawls the Arabian Sea and it’s the best place in Mumbai for seeing the sunset.
Being shielded by palm trees all around and lights encasing the coast, craft the spectacular view in the night. Marine Drive was constructed during the second phase of the urban development of Bombay during the late 20th century. It was fabricated as a division of the Back Bay Reclamation Scheme of the British Government.
January Parade:If you are visiting Mumbai during January, you ought to enjoy the Republic Day parade that takes place along the road. The main ceremony is conducted at Shivaji Park and this is the best time to visit the Drive. Republic Day takes place of 26th of January.
Amusing Things to do at Marine Drive:Queen’s Necklace of Mumbai – Marine Drive is an enchanting spot where visitors can indulge in a lot of fun activities. 
Sight Seeing:Marine Drive is an amalgam of beautiful views. In the daylight, you can sit on the walkway alongside and enjoy the pleasant beach environment that it offers. Have a calming experience and a lovely glimpse of sunset at Marine Drive.
At dusk, the sight is just breathtaking with the lined-up palm trees and street lights sparkling all around. The views here provide the visitors with a soothing atmosphere carrying away all their stress.
Being an impeccable blend of the beautiful sights and pleasant construction, Marine Drive is a perfect spot to take breath-taking pictures for your social media accounts.
Carry away the memories of Marine Drive with you by clicking amazing pictures at this magnificent place. The drive offers a perfect place to have staggering photo shoots. The beautiful rocky view alongside the sea offers a picture-perfect milieu.
Take your own camera with you or you can also find various street photographers there to have your photo clicked!
Evening Strolls
The alongside road walkway is especially destined to have pleasurable evening strolls. You can do cycling also and have a relaxing experience. The evening environment is full of cheerfulness at Marine Drive.
People enjoy walking or jogging along the walkway in a peaceful environment with the wonderful feels of cold breeze and sparkling waters of the Arabian Sea.
The place is a perfect spot for evening walks for everyone whether young or old. It is one of the favorite spots of people to hang out here with their friends and family in the evening. You can also indulge in some recreational activities here for fun.
Visit Art Deco Buildings
Marine Drive is surrounded by exquisite Art Deco Buildings nearby. Head out to these amazing places while enjoying the startling views of Marine Drive. Also, the Small Tarapore Aquarium at the southern end of Marine Drive and Cricket Maidans dotted along Marine Drive is a must-visit.
Food Stalls:Satiate your foodie spirit along with enjoying at Marine Drive with the street food available at various stalls. Don’t miss out on the mouth-watering famous snacks such as Pav Bhaji, Keema Pav, Bhel Puri, Batata Vada, Baida Roti, Frankies, Pani Puri, Kanda Poha, Idli Dosa Sambhar, Sev Puri, and Bombay Sandwiches. The street food at Marine Drive is a must to eat to smack your taste buds.
