To enjoy nature at its best in the middle of the concrete jungle, you must plan a day trip to Sanjay Gandhi National Park.
As many attractions here close over lunchtime, we'd recommend you plan your trip in a way in which you don't have to head back disappointed. We've made it simpler for you- here's a complete guide on exploring Sanjay Gandhi National Park and what all must be on your itinerary to walk out at the end feeling great about spending your day here.
Lion And Tiger Safaris
If you think that the National Park is only known for its greenery, caves and wild trails, you are highly mistaken. Being one of the protected national parks of this country, it is also host to tigers, lions and a lot of other wildlife which is very rare (some which you might not even have heard of). Take a mini jungle safari in a closed jeep or a caged bus to check out tigers and lions in their natural habitat- the jungle. Experience the grandeur of these wild cats roaming freely, in person. Safari in a jungle that lies in the middle of a city definitely sounds like a lot of fun! 
Go On A Trek
Sanjay Gandhi National Park also offers some spectacular treks and nature trails that you can embark on. The park has a lot of natural trails and treks that happen here regularly – in groups, or by solo trekkers. One of the most popular trek is the one from the main gate to Kanheri caves (it’s a 7km trail). There are also at least 30 kinds of butterflies that can be spotted here. So if you’re really into educating yourself about the flora and fauna of this park, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), the country’s leading conservation NGO, organises historical nature walks regularly. To stay on top of these walks, just look them up on the internet and voila! In fact, Sanjay Gandhi National Park itself organises a lot of walks and workshops and talks that you can be a part of, for a very nominal fee (if at all).
Go Cycling
If you've been meaning to get out, get fit and cycle, but just don't know which road to ride on, head straight to Sanjay Gandhi National Park where you can ride all the way up to Kanheri Caves through SNGP itself. However, if you're looking for an even better route, start riding to Sanjay Gandhi National Park from Aarey Milk Colony, as early in the day as possible. You can cross over Powai Lake to get to the Western Express Highway which will lead you to the national park. A lot of cycling groups organize meetups over the weekend and yes, you can be a part of them! Check out the Mumbai Cycling Group on Facebook that organizes cycle trails and meetups with fellow cyclists and posts about them on social media too, so you'll always be in the loop of what's being planned.
Row A Boat
Once you're in through the main gate of Sanjay Gandhi National Park, as you walk ahead, you will spot a small lake that has boats moored onto the side. If you want to experience some peace and quiet, just rent a boat and peddle away to glory! While it is a major attraction for kids and families alike, plan a boating getaway with your better half and trust us, they won't be disappointed.
Explore The Beautiful Kanheri Caves
Deep inside the park, are the beautiful ancient Buddhist caves, Kanheri Caves. These caves provide a rich Buddhist history – from the carvings on the wall to the beautiful statues and tombs that still stand there. It is perfect for a beginner's trek and if you're in the mood for some cultural exploration.
Pro-Tip: Sanjay Gandhi National Park is closed on Mondays.
Spend A Night In A Pine Hut

